Rename /topics/tor to /topics/onion-routing (#701)
OpenSats/website: data/topics/onion-routing.mdx

---
title: 'Onion routing'
summary: 'A privacy technique that relays traffic through a chain of intermediate nodes wrapped in layered encryption, so no single hop can link the sender to the destination. The technique behind Tor.'
category: 'Privacy'
aliases: ['Tor', 'The Onion Router', 'onion services', 'hidden services']
---

> Onion routing wraps a message in multiple layers of encryption, each addressed to one of a chain of intermediate relays. Each relay peels off its own layer and forwards what remains to the next hop. Because a relay can only decrypt the layer addressed to it, no relay sees both where the traffic came from and where it is going. An observer watching the sender's network sees a connection to the first relay and nothing else; an observer watching the destination sees a connection from the last relay and nothing else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Onion routing wraps a message in multiple layers of encryption, each addressed to one of a chain of intermediate relays. Each relay peels off its own layer and forwards what remains to the next hop. Because a relay can only decrypt the layer addressed to it, no relay sees both the initial sender and the final receiver. An observer watching the sender's network sees a connection to the first relay and nothing else; an observer watching the destination sees a connection from the last relay and nothing else.
```

The main deployed onion routing network is [Tor](/projects/tor), a volunteer-run network that carries traffic through three-hop circuits. Tor also defines onion services (sometimes called hidden services): servers that accept inbound connections through the network and expose a `.onion` address instead of a public IP or DNS name. The connection stays end-to-end encrypted between the two peers.

> Bitcoin software uses onion routing to connect to peers, fetch fee data, and publish reachable nodes without a public IP. Bitcoin Core ships built-in support for Tor v3 onion services, and Lightning nodes typically do the same. Running a full node behind an onion service keeps the operator's IP address private and removes the need to open ports on a home network.

Reviewer: Should we add something about Lightning leveraging onion routing to forward payments?

Author: Added a short Lightning note here about hop-by-hop payment forwarding and what each forwarding node learns.
